that's all right so this is
simultaneously really impressive and
really frightening at the same time and
it's hitting me in ways that I didn't
really expect so do you remember Will
Smith eating spaghetti do you remember
when this was what AI generated videos
look like remember when we said okay
this AI stuff is cool and all but
clearly there's a long way to go before
there's any need for concern well
welcome to the Future people because
this is also an AI generated video and
so is this completely synthesized out of
thin air by computers this one too this
is not real absolutely ridiculous how
far we've come in literally one year
this does feel like another chat GPT
Dolly moment for AI and maybe I'm
overreacting because okay I'm a video
creator so an AI that's actually doing
my job maybe that feels a little more
threatening so I'm particularly
impressed by it but also so this this
stuff is really good so today Sam Altman
and open AI announced a new model called
sora and it can generate full up to one
minute video clips from just text input
so the same way dolly was able to
understand our text input and turn it
into a photo realistic or stylized image
or whatever you want same thing with
Sora but now since it's videos it also
needs to understand how all these things
like refle
and textures and materials and physics
all interact with each other over time
to make a reasonable looking video and
of course right away there's a bunch of
examples on their website that are crazy
now before I show you these I just need
you to keep this in mind you're about to
watch a bunch of AI generated videos and
you know that you're about to watch a
bunch of AI generated content so your
brain you're already looking for this
stuff and it's not perfect you will find
imperfections but not everybody who sees
AI gener ated content on the internet
knows to be looking for that so also
keep that in mind this is also the worst
that this technology is going to be from
here on now so okay here's one of the
videos there's no audio to any of these
clips but the prompt for this one is a
stylish woman walks down a Tokyo Street
filled with warm glowing neon and
animated City signage she wears a black
leather jacket a long red dress and
black boots this video is already m
ahead of where we were it has accurate
lighting it has materials it has skin
tones movements even has Reflections all
over the place now of course if you look
at it for more than about 10 seconds
very closely there are lots of giveaways
like this dude in the background kind of
looks like he's gliding in a weird way
the frame rates and the Reflections in
the water are for some reason lower than
the rest of the video the camera
movement overall is just a bit
inconsistent and it just I don't know it
just kind of feels a little bit off but
then again this this is where we were
one year ago so just keep that in the
back of your head for all this okay how
about this one this is another one which
has a long prompt about a camera
following behind a white vintage SUV
with a black roof rack as it speeds up a
steep dirt road this is also again
really good this kind of looks a little
more video gamey because of how Rock
Solid the Drone footage is but clearly
very usable here's another one a litter
of golden retriever puppies playing in
the snow their heads pop in and out of
the snow covered in it it's so good it
feels like the physics of the fur and
the ears and everything with the snow
flying around in slow motion is
incredible I've looked through all of
the sample videos on open ai's website
and clearly these are the handpicked
best ones that they chose to share where
they just put in some text and then get
a video and don't modify it but there's
really impressive stuff in there some of
it has humans some of it doesn't some of
it is more realistic feeling like the
truck driving one but some some of them
are more video gamey or more stylized a
lot of it is slow motion I just have to
say how insanely fast these models are
improving is genuinely like that's the
shocking part like I remember not even
that many months ago Dolly 3 really
really high end and you could always
still find something off about it like
especially if you ask it for something
like a
photorealistic image of a
human something about like the hands or
the ears would always just be a little
bit off never mind the physics but even
this video here is crazy at first glance
The Prompt for this AI generated video
is a young man in his 20s is sitting on
a piece of a cloud in the sky reading a
book this one feels like 90% of the way
there for me like it's beyond the
uncanny valley of like apples personas
which are actually based on humans this
is a madeup person I mean his eyes are
kind of weird and the motion of the
pages in the book are kind of odd and
yeah obviously he's in a cloud and
that's a giveaway but like the lighting
and the shadows and the skin tones and
then all the realism of the textures on
the shirt and the way the the shirt and
the pants move and the hair they're all
really impressive and then for this one
they typed in a movie trailer featuring
the adventurers of the 30-year-old
Spaceman wearing a red wool knitted
motorcycle helmet Blue Sky salt desert
cinematic style shot on 35mm film and
the close-up of his face the Fabrics on
the helmet the film grain through every
shot and the Cinematic style this is one
of the most convincing AI generated
videos I've ever seen minus maybe the
weird physics of that dude walking kind
of in fast motion so Sam Alman if you
follow him on Twitter he's going through
a whole bunch more of like people's
requests and posting a bunch more
generated videos and so if you want to
check out his profile you can see those
but here's the thing about these AI
generated videos now as good as they've
gotten to this
point they can and will pass as real
videos to people who are not looking for
AI generated videos now that is
obviously insanely sketchy during an
election year in the US and also
terrifying for a bunch of other internet
related reasons but it's also perfect
for stock footage like there are already
all kinds of presentations and
advertisements and then PowerPoints that
are in need of oddly specific stock
videos and these AI generated videos are
already good enough to 100% pass for
that purpose like look at this one this
one with the waves at Big Sir this drone
shot honestly if I saw this on Twitter I
wouldn't even think twice I'd be like oh
nice drone shot dude wouldn't even think
about AI if I wasn't pixel peeping at
like the way the water was moving like
this this is a totally usable video in
an ad for some California based product
and that has all sorts of implications
for the Drone pilot that no longer needs
to be hired for all the photographers
and videographers whose footage no
longer needs to be licensed to show up
in that ad that's being made it's
already that good there's other stuff
like this wall of TVs which would be a
totally expensive and difficult thing to
shoot with a camera and all these old
expensive props but if you can just
generate it this well with reflections
and the environment and everything else
around it I mean why do it any other way
it's also very capable of historical
themed footage so this is supposed to be
California during the Gold Rush it's AI
generated but it could totally pass for
the opening scene in an old western with
the right music over it how long until
an entire ad every single shot is
completely generated with AI or what
about an entire YouTube video or an
entire movie I'm tempted to say like
we're a long way away from that because
you know this still has flaws clearly
and there's no sound and there's a long
way to go with the prompt engineering to
iron these things out but then again the
the spaghetti was like a year ago now
actually like that open AI on their
website they show some of the downfalls
too of this particular model and because
Who would know better than the people
who have been using it this is a a very
private tool by the way right now it's
in super limited access so it's in the
hands of red teamers which basically
means people testing it pushing the
limits trying to break it and a few
Trust creators but they have found uh
plenty of weird Edge stuff like this
clip here of a bunch of gray wolf pups
looks normal at first but then it's
pretty clear that something's kind of
off with the way they're just kind of
appearing out of nowhere and walking
through each other that's kind of weird
or this clip of a guy running on a
treadmill which I mean I don't really
have to say much more about why this
one's weird but this is my favorite one
again so again just try to try to put
yourself in the mind of someone who's
not expecting AI you're just scrolling
through Facebook or Twitter or something
right so you just see this video so
first I just want you to watch this clip
as if it's just a stock video you found
of a grandma celebrating her birthday
and just try to try to think like what I
wonder what birthday she's celebrating
right I don't know how old do you think
she is 60 65 maybe it's the big 70 she
seems to really like that cake and did
you did you see it did you catch that
I'm going to I'm going to play it again
but this time watch the video knowing
that AI generated photos and videos have
trouble accurately doing hands I'll play
it again and now it feels super obvious
like every time you watch it watch a
different set of hands it gets weirder
and weirder you can watch it like five
times and there's dead giveaway after
dead giveaway not even mentioning the
weird inconsistencies with the direction
of the wind on the candles but even as
I'm saying all that even as it's coming
out of my mouth I can't help but
remember that 12 months ago we were
critiquing
this so what is this all mean well I
mean there's what it means now and
there's what it means for the future now
Sora this thing that they've made is
clearly a really impressive video
generation AI tool that is both going to
fool people and also be very useful
there's there's also a a watermark in
the bottom corner of every video
generated by it so if you see one of
those videos and ideally it hasn't been
cropped out then that's at least a
pretty clear indicator that it's a
generated it's sore video but also I I
do think they're going to have to be
very careful with this they're they're
going to have a whole bunch of safety
stuff to keep in mind I think they'll
probably have to be even more safe than
Dolly like you shouldn't be able to
generate people's likenesses like you
shouldn't be able to make a politician
look like they're doing something on
video especially this year you probably
won't be able to make Will Smith eating
spaghetti but it also definitely means
stock video
generation is absolutely going to take a
dent out of video licensing like I can
basically guarantee that like
logistically why would anyone making
something pay for footage of a house in
the cliffs when they can generate one
for free or for a small subscription
price like that is the real scary part
of what this tool implies but in the
future gets it gets pretty existential
man I mean okay if this is trained on
all videos that have ever been made by
humans then surely it can't be
Innovative or creative in ways that
humans haven't already been
right I don't know either way I'll have
all the links below for all the Sora
stuff for open AI stuff and I guess I'll
talk to you next year when we look back
and go remember that first version of
Sora and how bad those wolf pups looked
when they spawned out of
nowhere just remember this is the worst
that this technology is going to be from
here on out that's hot thanks for
watching that's hot catch you in the
next one
peace
[Music]